----------------------------------------------------------------------
*Accessibility proposal -- Summary to date*

10 September 2009

At its meeting of 21 September 2008, the DCMI Usage Board resolved to
coordinate with the AGLS on the development of a property and related value
encoding scheme to express the "accessibility" of a resource [1]. The
process -- subsequently agreed with the AGLS Working Group, maintainers of
the AGLS standard "AGLS Metadata Terms" (AS5044) [2] -- called for the DCMI
Usage Board and the AGLS Working Group to agree on the natural language
definition and formal range for a proposed new DCMI property,
"accessibility". Usage of the property was to be exemplified by a Vocabulary
Encoding Scheme (VES) proposed by AGLS. The goal was for DCMI and AGLS to
jointly announce the publication of a DCMI property and AGLS vocabulary
encoding scheme, and to publish the two new terms along with "simple usable
documentation".

The requirement for agreement between DCMI and AGLS on a definition and
range for the related terms was stipulated in order to convey a coherent
joint message. Reviewing the property and VES proposals in parallel was
motivated by a desire to illustrate the new property with a set of exemplary
values. At the time, the Usage Board noted that a draft Dublin Core
application profile [3] called for the use of _two_ properties related to
accessibility -- "accessibility" and "accessMode" -- the definitions of
which seemed to overlap. In its discussion, the Usage Board therefore
reiterated the requirement, inherent for any RDF property, that statements
made using the "accessibility" property make sense independently of their
context within particular description sets.

The Usage Board discussed the following issues:

-- Range of the "accessibility" property  The definition proposed for the
   property is: "A characteristic of a resource that relates to the human
   capacity to perceive, operate, understand or otherwise engage with the
   resource". It was suggested that this wording reads like the definition of a
   range class one might call "Accessibility Characteristic". The proposed
   property, according to this view, would relate a resource to an
   "accessibility characteristic". (It was noted in December 2008 that a
   proposal for such a range class would need to be approved together with the
   related property.)

-- Terms in the proposed vocabulary encoding scheme seen as "accessibility
   characteristics"  As of August 2009, it remained unclear whether the terms
   of the vocabulary encoding scheme were to be declared by AGLS as belonging
   to a particular class of terms, such as (it was suggested) SKOS concepts.
   This issue notwithstanding, it was recognized that the terms (or SKOS
   concepts) of the proposed VES were broadly related to aspects of a resource
   that might affect or limit the ability of a user to consume the resource,
   although it is less clear how the term "hazard" relates to a "human
   capacity".

-- User guidance  The Usage Board felt that the proposal alone did not
   present sufficient guidance about the intended use of the property to
   properly answer the questions that would be expected after publication. If
   metadata-consuming applications are intended to test for accessibility
   values and draw actionable conclusions, this use is only implied, not
   articulated explicitly or illustrated with examples. For example, the
   proposal does not provide usage scenarios for judging the difference between
   saying:

    Resource:R dc:type dcmitype:Sound

   as opposed to:

    Resource:R proposed:accessibility proposed:auditoryOnly

-- Relationship of the proposal to other "accessibility" work  In the course
   of discussion, it was argued that the proposed "accessibility
   characteristics" are "low-hanging fruit" -- salient accessibility-related
   concepts that have emerged from years of discussion in the accessibility
   field. However, if it is the case that these concepts have matured in other
   communities, the Usage Board feels that the sources of these concepts need
   to be acknowledged and cited with more precision in the proposal and in any
   resulting publication.

In particular, the Usage Board notes that previous work seems to be based on
the notion of defining multiple properties (or functional equivalents) for
accessibility characteristics. These other standards bodies seem not to have
coined anything analogous to a single accessibility property or modelled
accessibility characteristics as a controlled vocabulary (enumerated list of
values). In that sense, the proposal seems to show an entirely new way to
model accessibility for which the Usage Board sees little implementation
experience or examples.

The Usage Board acknowledges the importance of accessibility as an idea and
strongly endorses the idea of describing resources in ways that clarify how
those resources can be perceived, operated, understood or otherwise engaged
with. However, the Usage Board believes that there are problems with the
current proposal that need to be resolved before the proposal could be put
to a Usage Board vote.

[1] http://dublincore.org/usage/minutes/2008/2008-09-21.berlin-2Accessibility.html
[2] http://www.agls.gov.au/documents/aglsterms/
[3] http://dublincore.org/accessibilitywiki/ElementsVocabularies?action=diff&date2=1219099321&date1=1214977622

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Date:         Thu, 10 Sep 2009 20:40:15 +1000
From:         Liddy Nevile <liddy@SUNRISERESEARCH.ORG>
Subject:      Re: Accessibility Summary
To:           DC-USAGE@JISCMAIL.AC.UK

my comments below:

On 10/09/2009, at 1:50 PM, Andrew Wilson wrote:
> -- Terms in the proposed vocabulary encoding scheme seen as  
> "accessibility characteristics"  As of August 2009, it remained  
> unclear whether the terms of the vocabulary encoding scheme were to  
> be declared by AGLS as belonging to a particular class of terms,  
> such as (it was suggested) SKOS concepts. This issue  
> notwithstanding, it was recognized that the terms (or SKOS concepts)  
> of the proposed VES were broadly related to aspects of a resource  
> that might affect or limit the ability of a user to consume the  
> resource, although it is less clear how the term "hazard" relates to  
> a "human capacity".

In the field of accessibility for people with disabilities, in  
particular, it is very important to warn users if there is what is   
known as a hazard within a resource. A typical hazard is a flashing  
visual object or repetitive sound that is likely to trigger a fit or  
other reaction in those who are susceptable to such problems. Just as  
something that is videoOnly will not be useful to a person without  
sight, a resource with a hazard will not be suitable for them.

> -- User guidance  The Usage Board felt that the proposal alone did  
> not present sufficient guidance about the intended use of the  
> property to properly answer the questions that would be expected  
> after publication. If metadata-consuming applications are intended  
> to test for accessibility values and draw actionable conclusions,  
> this use is only implied, not articulated explicitly or illustrated  
> with examples. For example, the proposal does not provide usage  
> scenarios for judging the difference between saying:
>
> Resource:R dc:type dcmitype:Sound
>
> as opposed to:
>
> Resource:R proposed:accessibility proposed:auditoryOnly

As many resources contain a mix of objects, there is a difference  
between a resource that has the dcmitype: sound but happens to have a  
related object that is a text description of what is in that sound,  
and a resource that is not associated with such an alternative. Where  
a resource initially is not associated with a text transcription, say,  
but someone adds one for it, the metadata can be changed. The problem  
that led to the need for these terms is that often, from an  
accessibility perspective, it is the relationship between  
characteristics of a resource that affects accessibility, and that  
would mean the receiving system would have to relate the two  
possibilities, whereas with a single term describing the accessibility  
characteristic, this would not be necessary. This issue was raised and  
dealt with about 6 years ago and is documented on the accessibility  
wiki.

> -- Relationship of the proposal to other "accessibility" work  In  
> the course of discussion, it was argued that the proposed  
> "accessibility characteristics" are "low-hanging fruit" -- salient  
> accessibility-related concepts that have emerged from years of  
> discussion in the accessibility field. However, if it is the case  
> that these concepts have matured in other communities, the Usage  
> Board feels that the sources of these concepts need to be  
> acknowledged and cited with more precision in the proposal and in  
> any resulting publication.

Citation of the original use in IMS specifications, the follow-up use  
in ISO standards, and the implementations has been available for  
several years. The terms are not exactly the same as those used in the  
IMS or ISO case because they use hierarchies of terms in ways that  
cannot be replicated in DC metadata. The terms chosen have been  
approved by those who developed the IMS and ISO standards, however.

> In particular, the Usage Board notes that previous work seems to be  
> based on the notion of defining multiple properties (or functional  
> equivalents) for accessibility characteristics. These other  
> standards bodies seem not to have coined anything analogous to a  
> single accessibility property or modelled accessibility  
> characteristics as a controlled vocabulary (enumerated list of  
> values). In that sense, the proposal seems to show an entirely new  
> way to model accessibility for which the Usage Board sees little  
> implementation experience or examples.

Both the other standards bodies have defined extensive vocabularies  
but, as explained above, they have done so in a hierarchical way so  
that users can follow down the hierarchies to get more precision. As  
the DC way of achieving the goal is different, this is not useful and  
the added detail would be developed in an application profile - a  
draft of which has been available for several years to illustrate this.

