Guidelines for using Agent Roles in Dublin Core (Draft)

1/23/04, dih
2/12/04, rsg
2/16/04, dih
2/23/04, tb (converted to plain text only)

Function of roles and history of approval by DCMI 

The need to express a role for the "Agent" elements (Creator,
Contributor, and, to a lesser extent, Publisher) in the Dublin
Core element Set has been expressed for many years and there
have been a number of ideas for how to handle this. A role
is a term that further refines the contribution of the agent
to the resource described; an example is "illustrator" might
be a role associated with the element Contributor when that
person provided, for example, illustrations to the resource
rather than being entirely responsible for all aspects of
the intellectual content.

The DCMI Usage Board has discussed the issue several times
and agreed that the role values are properly element
refinements. At its meeting in Florence in Oct. 2002,
the Board generally agreed that deprecating Creator and
Publisher in favor of Contributor should be considered,
since the role values Creator and Publisher could be used to
refine Contributor if needed.  Because of negative response to
this sort of change in the Dublin Core element set, the DCMI
Usage Board decided to recommend role refinements only to
Contributor, but to leave Creator, Contributor and Publisher
as separate elements.

Because a standardized, widely adopted list of roles already
existed in the MARC Code List for Relators, it was recommended
early in these discussions that DCMI not develop its own. In
early 2000 a subset of the MARC relators list was circulated
for approval to include 10 generally applicable roles out
of the approximately 150 MARC relator terms. Because of the
need to consider other aspects of the "Agent" issue, at that
time the proposal was deferred. Discussion initially in the
DC-Libraries Working Group (which prepared an application
profile for use in libraries that included the relator terms)
and later in the DCMI Usage Board revealed that consensus
was that users not be constrained by a small list of elements
and that the entire list of relator terms should be available
given the difficulty of anticipating needs in various domains.

The Library of Congress has prepared an RDF expression
of the MARC relator list, to be used in conjunction with
the Dublin Core element Contributor. This is available at:
http://www.loc.gov/marc/dc/marcrelcodes.rdf (note: this is
not yet a persistent URI but Rebecca will provide one!).

The MARC Relator list, what it is and how it's structured

The MARC Code List for Relators was developed for use in
MARC 21 bibliographic records to express the relationship
between a name and a work.  The list includes both role
terms and three-character codes that represent those terms.
The terms were only included on the list if the name and its
associated role were considered important enough to include
on a bibliographic record as a contributor.  Thus, all terms
represent possible contributions to a resource.  The Library of
Congress is the maintenance agency for this list and regularly
adds new ones when the need is expressed and documented.

The MARC Relator list includes three-character alphabetic
codes to be used to identify roles. These are to be considered
synonyms for the term they represent.  In addition the list
provides definitions for use of the term/code.  In the RDF
representation, the codes are tokens to be used for the term
and are part of the URI.  In some cases unused terms refer to
used terms; these are included in the RDF representation as a
note (dc:description).  All terms are declared as refinements
of dc:contributor.

Using Roles with Contributor

In order to minimize the possibility of confusion, the Usage
Board has authorized the use of roles only with the element
Contributor. Because Creator is in some sense a role elevated
to a position at the level of element, the Board's position
is that it makes no sense to provide yet another level of
roles beneath that particular element.

Because Publisher and Creator each appears on the list of MARC
Relator terms, and the entire list is available to be used
as roles, it is acceptable to use the role of Publisher or
Creator instead of the element within an implementation. If
marc:creator is used instead of dc:creator, the two terms
should probably not be used together in the same instance.

Because roles are to be used only with the Contributor element,
appropriate "Dumb Down" of all agent refinements expressed as
roles will be to Contributor.  Given this, implementations
may choose (preferably within the context of an application
profile), to specify explicitly whether the MARC relator terms
of publisher or creator may be used, based on the fact that
the distinction could be retained in Simple Dublin Core if
the Element level term is retained for those particular roles.

Using Roles in XML and other Schemas

Because the maintenance of the MARC Relator list will
remain with the Library of Congress, the namespace of the
roles will be established by LC and will not be a DCMI
namespace. Thus, schemas will need to include the MARC
relator namespace in order to properly express role terms.
See the document Guidelines for Implementing Dublin Core
in XML <http://dublincore.org/documents/dc-xml-guidelines/>
for specific information on using non-DCMI namespaces.

Terms not on the MARC Relators list

The MARC Relator list has been developed over many years to
meet a wide variety of needs.  New terms are added on the basis
of need, and LC has expressed willingness to continue to expand
the list upon request. Implementers also have the option to
create and expose alternative vocabularies for the expression
of other kinds of roles not reflected in the MARC Relator list.

Managing the Use of Role in an Implementation

The MARC Relator list is large, including approximately 150
separate terms for various roles. Some of the roles on the
list were created for specific domains, and would be of little
use in other communities.  It might therefore be useful for
implementations to declare a subset of the role vocabulary
as relevant to their specific goals, preferably by way of a
formal application profile.


