------------------------------------------------------------------------
Date:         Mon, 8 Mar 2004 16:32:52 -0500
From: Diane Hillmann <dih1@CORNELL.EDU>
Subject: Some comments on Tom's AskDCMI issues
To: DC-USAGE@JISCMAIL.AC.UK
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Diane's comments on Tom's AskDCMI concerns:

> -- When questions come into my mailbox but not answers,
> I cannot know which ones have been answered without going
> to the Web, nor can I accumulate my own archive of answers,
> meaning I have to search the database on the Web to know
> whether a similar question has been answered.

Not sure whether this is a generalized need or a "Tom-need"?
In fact, someone (the Administrator) does know what questions
have been answered, and is tasked to keep track of that.
I don't think the writers of the software ever considered
that someone might want to do what you suggest, Tom. ;-)
But though it may sometimes be useful to search the corpus to
see if a question has been answered, I suspect most experts
don't do that.

The process of turning these answers into FAQs is not trivial.
I did a project at work where I had someone go through and
characterize email based answers and do some initial editing
to create a FAQ, and though it worked it was a lot of effort.
We could do it, but it would need a considerable investment of
time on someone's part. Generally each question has a specific
context and to be turned into a general FAQ would require some
(if not considerable) editing.

> -- Not being able to get an overview of what has been written,
> I am uneasy with the notion of a growing set of overlapping
> answers to overlapping questions, and that some of these
> answers may in fact be controversial, or out-of-date,
> or at any rate need to be maintained.

Right now there are only a few experts that can answer
questions without being reviewed by the Administrator.  These
are not people who write controversial answers.  Because of the
"experts" the answers are probably less controversial than
answers gleaned through questions on DC-General.  They are
not easily maintained, it's true, but to a certain extent
how "easy" depends on your definition of "maintenance."
Out-dated answers could simply be deleted, for instance.

Although there are indeed some overlapping questions and
answers, I don't think that the problem is particularly bad,
yet, primarily because of the "context" mentioned above.

> -- It is not clear to me whether the goal is to accumulate a
> body of best practice and use that corpus to refine and
> improve our collective sense of best practice over time.
> If the goal is not to accumulate knowledge, then the AskDCMI
> work feels like a relentless servicing of user requests.
> If the goal is to learn from the process, then it is not
> clear to me how we can capture that learning.  For example,
> if the answers were being cited and summarized in a
> single, growing FAQ file that we could periodically
> download and keep on hand, then one could presumably
> answer alot of the new questions simply by pointing to
> a specific section of the FAQ.  This would also have
> the welcome side effect of improving the quality of
> http://dublincore.org/resources/faq/, which does indeed
> need to be revised.

The DCMI Official FAQ is clearly outdated and should be
re-written, or deleted. I had hoped to incorporate some of
that into the AskDCMI knowledgebase but haven't had the time to
do it.  If someone were to write the sort of FAQ Tom suggests,
the DCMI experts would not need to be answering the "repeat"
questions, probably the administrator could refer questioners
to the FAQ without the questions even appearing for experts.
However, the trick is to get that FAQ written.

I think there are several goals, not the least of which
is a servicing of user requests. At the very basic level,
the questions asked let US know where the holes in our
documentation are, and what implementers still don't
understand.  The fact that we often don't respond quickly or
well to that information is another issue.  We are capable
of generating lots of good ideas on how to improve things,
but haven't been as good on figuring out where to expend our
limited resources.

> -- If the answers are not being captured or summarized in such
> a central document, it is not clear to me what longer- term
> responsibility is being implicitly assumed (and by whom)
> for reviewing and maintaining the many separate answers.
> In principle, does an answer have an expiration date?

Well, I'm not at all sure we could have even stated the
question last year, so in some ways asking how we will maintain
this is progress.  I don't know that answers explicitly have
an expiration date, but date might be one way to focus review.

> -- It is not clear to me how AskDCMI relates to DCMI's
> open mailing lists, where asking the same question might
> lead to a discussion instead of a straightforward (but
> possibly simplistic or misleading) answer.

I think they serve quite different purposes. Although sometimes
good discussion comes from a question asked, just as often
the result is a clueless answer being given that then needs
to be diplomatically refuted--thereby confusing folks even
more. When what is needed is a broad range of opinion on
an issue that is not a "best practice" question, then the
mailing lists are great.  When the question is, how can I do
it right?--the mailing lists may not be the best resource,
mostly because we have no way of defining for new implementers
who is competent to speak.  I have more than once steered
AskDCMI questioners to the list, when they ask the sort of
question that should be asked on lists.

> I pose this concerns in a constructive spirit because I would
> very much like to see this service work.  On the other hand,
> AskDCMI is not a service of the Usage Board, so I am uncertain
> how far this discussion should go.  In Bath, we could perhaps
> consider the following:

>   -- A printout (if such can be generated) of the entire corpus
> of answers and rough analysis of questions by type.

Not sure what kind of type you're referring to here.  I suspect
we each would characterize them differently (a common problem,
as we know). I'd suggest that we need a better feel for our
goal and priorities before anyone proceeds with this task.

> -- A general discussion of current plans and future
> developments in light of the comments above.

Stuart has agreed to discuss future plans for the software
at the meeting.  I think your question about whether AskDCMI
is a service of the UB is an important one.  To some extent,
I think one of our problems is that we have not managed to
garner the participation of the larger Advisory Board in this
effort. I think AskDCMI is much better conceptually understood
at that level.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Date: Wed, 10 Mar 2004 06:47:26 +0100
From: Thomas Baker <thomas.baker@bi.fhg.de>
Subject: Re: Some comments on Tom's AskDCMI issues
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Diane wrote:
> Not sure whether this is a generalized need or a "Tom-need"?
> In fact, someone (the Administrator) does know what questions
> have been answered, and is tasked to keep track of that.
> I don't think the writers of the software ever considered
> that someone might want to do what you suggest, Tom. ;-)

The questions appear in the mailbox when they are asked,
but the answers do not.  If the answer could appear in my
mailbox as a reply to the question, I would see "Aha, it has
been answered, I don't need to do it then."  I would also
see the text of the answer (and possibly learn something,
or even disagree) without having to look on the Web.

> The process of turning these answers into FAQs is not trivial.
> I did a project at work where I had someone go through and
> characterize email based answers and do some initial editing
> to create a FAQ, and though it worked it was a lot of effort.
> We could do it, but it would need a considerable investment of
> time on someone's part. Generally each question has a specific
> context and to be turned into a general FAQ would require some
> (if not considerable) editing.

I propose the following:

1) We reduce the FAQ to 10-20 broad questions.

2) We then determine who should be responsible for maintaining
   the answer to each question.  Two obvious candidates are:

   -- the Directorate, for questions related to DCMI as an
      organization;

   -- the Usage Board, for questions related to DCMI metadata
      terms (the bulk of the questions);

   It is not clear to me who would best take the questions
   related to syntax or software tools.

3) Supposing the questions were found to fall neatly into three
   categories -- e.g.: Semantic, Organizational, and
   Implementational -- then the FAQ could perhaps be divided
   into three parts and assigned to three jurisdictions:
   Usage Board, Directorate, and [Other].

4) To each question in the Usage Board area, the head of
   the UB would assign a shepherd.  Each UB shepherd of a FAQ
   question would be responsible for reviewing the FAQ's answer
   for freshness and currency before each UB meeting.  Each UB
   member would be responsible for reading (i.e., re-reading)
   the entire UB section of the FAQ before each meeting.
   At each meeting, a vote would be held to explicitly approve
   the UB section of the FAQ.

5) For the purposes of citation, each question in the FAQ will
   have a "handle" (e.g.,
   http://dublincore.org/faq/#whatarequalifiers or
   http://dublincore.org/faq/whatarequalifiers/).  This handle
   would serve both as a resolvible pointer to the answer
   for a question and as an Identifier citable, for example,
   in answers to queries on AskDCMI.  To adopt this approach
   one would need to consider the following:

   a) The http://dublincore.org/faq/#whatarequalifiers style
      of identifier implies that the FAQ is a single document
      with HTML anchors.  Advantage: Click on the FAQ and
      send the whole thing to the printer.  Disadvantage:
      the Webmasters need to cut-and-paste updated text into
      a master document (unless one were to use "includes" 
      to "pull in" the answers from an external file?).

   b) The http://dublincore.org/faq/whatarequalifiers/ style
      of identifier implies a directory structure in which
      each answer is a separate file in a separate directory.
      Advantage: the shepherd edits a single file which is
      simply dropped into the directory structure.

> Out-dated answers could simply be deleted, for instance.

It is not clear to me what function "old answers" have in
AskDCMI.  Ideally, one would copy the answer written by an
AskDCMI expert to the shepherd of a DCMI FAQ question and
that work would lead to the improvement in the DCMI FAQ.
If that were the case, we would want to explicitly encourage
people to consult the DCMI FAQ instead of searching through
old answers on AskDCMI.

As for pruning out-dated answers, it seems to me that
determining the freshness of an answer on a case-by-case
basis would require significant effort on the part of AskDCMI
administrators.  It would seem more efficient simply to give
AskDCMI answers a fixed expiration date, after which they would
either become unavailable or move to an explicitly "archival"
section of AskDCMI.

> If someone were to write the sort of FAQ Tom suggests,
> the DCMI experts would not need to be answering the "repeat"
> questions, probably the administrator could refer questioners
> to the FAQ without the questions even appearing for experts.
> However, the trick is to get that FAQ written.

I think the answer lies in partitioning responsibility for
the FAQ and assigning shepherds.

> I think there are several goals, not the least of which
> is a servicing of user requests. At the very basic level,
> the questions asked let US know where the holes in our
> documentation are, and what implementers still don't
> understand.  

Agreed.

> Well, I'm not at all sure we could have even stated the
> question last year, so in some ways asking how we will maintain
> this is progress.  

Yes.

> >   -- A printout (if such can be generated) of the entire corpus
> > of answers and rough analysis of questions by type.
> 
> Not sure what kind of type you're referring to here.  I suspect
> we each would characterize them differently (a common problem,
> as we know). I'd suggest that we need a better feel for our
> goal and priorities before anyone proceeds with this task.

http://www.bi.fhg.de/People/Thomas.Baker/ISSUES/CACHE/AskDCMI.txt
is perhaps good enough as a basis for discussion.  By my
reading of the questions, I should think that a good FAQ should
be able to provide answers to "85%" of the AskDCMI questions,
so that on AskDCMI an expert could in many cases answer an
question with just one or two sentences plus a pointer to a
specific answer in the DCMI FAQ.

> To some extent,
> I think one of our problems is that we have not managed to
> garner the participation of the larger Advisory Board in this
> effort. I think AskDCMI is much better conceptually understood
> at that level.

Conceptually, I think the way forward lies in solving the
problem of maintaining an excellent FAQ.  The FAQ is something
for which we can reasonably expect an AB member to read and
provide feedback.

