------------------------------------------------------------------------
Date: Mon, 18 Apr 2005 13:58:23 +0200
From: Thomas Baker <thomas.baker@bi.fhg.de>
To: DCMI Usage Board back-channel <dc-usage-bc@jiscmail.ac.uk>
Subject: Accessibility - new proposal
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Liddy has reacted to the digest of our discussions (see my
summary below).

My gut feeling is that the best we can do, under the
circumstances, is to finalize something rather close to what we
"approved" in Shanghai.  I propose:

    Definition:  A description of the resource in terms
    of how it can be perceived, understood, or interacted
    with by users.

    Comment: An accessibility description might be used to
    match the (digital or physical) resource to a user on
    the basis of the user's ability profile.  Implementers
    wishing to express the values for this element in a
    machine-readable language should consider treating such
    expressions as "related descriptions" in terms of the
    DCMI Abstract Model.

In a nutshell:
-- The definition returns to "description" (instead of 
   "statement") -- but dc:description itself can have a literal 
   value.
-- It is not limited to digital resources (and Liddy agrees; see
   below).
-- It does not cite EARL, which is not yet stable (and Charles 
   agrees; see below).
-- It includes a caveat with regard to associating the element
   with a "related description".
-- It refers to the intended use ("matching").  As we did in
   fact "approve" such language in Shanghai, it would be
   awkward to argue that we have since changed our mind...

How to proceed?  Liddy and Charles have not yet seen the
proposed text -- I'm posting it here first.  In order to
post my summary of their email (below) on the public list,
I'd need their approval and, ideally, confirmation that my
summary is correct.  Hence I'm posting first to DC-USAGE-BC...

Tom


----

Main background, repeated here as reference (see earlier
summary of the complete discussion)

    Proposed definition

        Definition:  "A description of the qualities of the resource
        in terms of control, display and content that can be used to
        match the needs and preferences of a user."

        Comment:  "The qualities of control, display and content
        include the user's control of the interface, the sensory
        modality of the resource as presented and variations in the
        expressive form of the information.  Recommended best practice
        is to express the value in a machine-addressable manner such
        as the W3C Evaluation and Reporting Language (EARL)."

    UB decision from the meeting notes (2005-10-10)

        Agreed to change definition to: "A description of the
        qualities of the resource in terms of control, display
        and content that can be used to match the needs and
        preferences of a user."

        Note: need to clarify comment to indicate what is meant
        by 'control, display and content' and to note that recommended
        best practice is to provide a machine-readable statement.

    Definition on the table as of 11 April

        Definition: A statement about the ease with which it
        is possible to use, interact with or comprehend the
        resource, regardless of the technology used.

        Comment: Ease of access encompasses the ability to
        perceive, understand, navigate, or interact with a
        resource -- digital or physical -- regardless of the
        technology being used.  For example, this element may
        be used for statements about the accessibility of a
        resource to people who are permanently or temporarily
        disabled.  Users wishing to associate this element
        with a description of a resource from the standpoint
        of accessibility -- a "related description" in terms
        of the DCMI Abstract Model [CITE] -- should consider
        expressing the value in a machine-readable language
        such as the W3C Evaluation and Reporting Language
        (EARL) [CITE].

Liddy's reaction to the discussion and proposed definition
(disclaimer: paraphrased by me).

-- The April 11 definition is not acceptable.  The definition
   and comment make a statement that should not be made
   by DCMI "for many reasons".  DCMI would, in effect, be
   "making all the mistakes of non-experts in the field".

-- For Liddy, it is important to hold on to the notion of
   "can be used to match the needs and preferences of a user."
   She suggests: "A description of the qualities of the object
   in terms of accessibility characteristics that can be used
   to match the needs and preferences of a user."

-- Charles agrees, saying that the important thing is that
   the metadata describes characteristics of the resource
   that are relevant to its accessibility, "specifically
   so that appropriate matches can be made between users
   and resources".

-- Liddy agrees about not enumerating "control, display, and
   content" as "qualities of a resource".  She prefers a vaguer
   wording such as "in terms of accessibility characteristics"
   because this could be broadened to include physical access
   and whatever else might be discovered as necessary for
   wheel-chairs and the like.  She would not want to restrict
   the element at this stage, so that they will be able
   to describe best practice in a variety of circumstances
   more easily.

-- She does agree with broadening the concept by removing
   references to specific qualities that restrict the scope of
   the element.  That said, for the purposes of clarification:

   -- "control" is the human-computer interaction relationship;

   -- "display or presentation" has to do with the modality --
       visual, auditory or tactile;

   -- "content" has to do with the intellectual contribution
      of the resource, service, or other object.

-- Liddy agrees that access-as-obtain and access-as-use are
   different things.  The problem with the word 'accessibility'
   is well-known and confusion has occurred in many fora,
   but it is felt that changing the term used would cause
   even more confusion.  Best practice is to avoid the use of
   the word 'access' and to always structure sentences so that
   'accessibility' can be used.   Conversely, the accessibility
   community carefully avoid referring to obtainability as
   'accessibility'.

-- Liddy agrees that in the W3C world, accessibility is
   about "intellectual accessibility" -- things like level of
   difficulty and language.  It also seems to have something
   to do with the ease with which a resource can be used.
   According to http://www.w3.org/WAI/ut2/accessibility.html,
   Web accessibility means that people with disabilities can
   use the Web.  More specifically, Web accessibility means
   that the Web is designed so that people with disabilities
   can perceive, understand, navigate, and interact with it
   effectively, as well as create and contribute content to
   the Web.  Web accessibility addresses all disabilities,
   including visual, auditory, physical, speech, cognitive,
   and neurological disabilities.

-- Liddy agrees that the proposed Accessibility element is not
   specifically about "Web Accessibility" in the sense
   of accessibility to digital resources in the context
   of the Web.  Rather, the "Web" part is the idea that
   the Web is used to ship around the metadata, and the
   resources described by that metadata need not be digital.
   For example, in the educational context they could be
   physical objects such as text books and work sheets.

-- Therefore, she agrees that one could use this element
   to describe the accessibility of a building.  In fact,
   this has been considered and there is already work underway
   to establish a vocabulary for event and location physical
   accessibility (arising from last year's  work in MMI-DC in
   Europe), though in such contexts, she thinks the definition
   should perhaps refer to 'object' instead of 'resources'
   because people don't think of buildings as 'resources'.

-- She particularly dislikes one of the alternatives we
   considered ("A statement about the ease with which the
   resource can be accessed and used, regardless of the
   technology being used.").  The main objections:

   -- it is quite different from what was proposed;
   -- it does not convey the purpose of the metadata;
   -- it uses the bad word (access) in a confusing way, 
      hinting at definitions that have been discredited
      in the field.

-- Commenting on text we considered at one point

        Factors that determine the ease of access and use of
        the resource include the control of the interface,
        the sensory modality of the resource as presented and
        variations in the expressive form of the information.

   ...she made the following objections:

   -- the word 'access' is used incorrectly
   -- there is an opening for usability in general, which 
      was never intended; 
   -- the term involves a quality judgment, which seems
      inappropriate for DCMI.

-- Liddy did not at all understand our confusion about the
   the Accessibility property not actually describing the
   "accessibility" of the resource, but as describing the
   resource (itself) in the context of a process -- involving
   a description of the resource and a description of the
   user -- the outcome of which is an indication of the
   accessibility of that resource for that user.  Liddy says
   that an accessibility statement describes in strict detail
   the accessibility qualities of the object just like date
   has details about a date.

   In other words, she does not at all understand the notion of
   Accessibility as denoting a relation between a resource and
   a _description_ of that resource -- where that description
   describes those specific attributes of the resource that
   support such an "accessibility assessment" process.

-- Liddy agrees that we should be able to use an Accessibility
   element for an unstructured plain-literal "accessibility
   statement".  The example she offers is: "This resource
   conforms to WCAG Level AA".

-- Confusingly -- in light of her suggestion above! -- Liddy
   strongly objects to defining Accessibility as "A statement
   about the conformance of a resource to a particular
   accessibility benchmark" (or words to that effect) --
   a wording we considered because it seemed to be what
   some of the Web pages were about.  She explains that the
   accessibility community has done alot of work to get away
   from this approach. Conformance statements in this field are
   very problematic and not helpful anyway as there is no known
   specification to which conformance guarantees accessibility.

-- With regard to our confusion about EARL, she reports that
   David Weinkauf and Anastasia Cheetham have developed a small
   EARL generator that produces what they are talking about --
   see http://tile-gus.atrc.utoronto.ca/acheck/index.html.
   She points to http://inclusivelearning.ca/TILE/ for a
   working demo of a production system using this approach.

-- Following URLs she provided, I found
   http://www.imsproject.org/accessibility/accmdv1p0/imsaccmd_bestv1p0.html
   -- a user guide which explains EARL on the example of TILE.
   This makes the intended process a bit clearer to me.
   Basically, it involves comparing "profiles" in XML --
   on one hand the profile encoding the accessibility needs
   and preferences of a user, on the other a profile associated
   with a resource (which is what they want to point with using
   the Accessibility element):

        When the TILE authoring tool is used to aggregate
        and publish learning objects, authors are prompted
        to provide information about the modality of the
        resources, stating whether or not they contain
        auditory, visual, textual, or tactile content, as
        well as any equivalent alternative resources along
        with their alternative accessibility properties. This
        information is captured in the resource meta-data
        profile. Users, on the other hand, are given the
        option of creating an ACCLIP profile stating their
        accessibility needs and preferences. Together, this
        information is used to determine whether or not a
        requested primary resource should be substituted or
        supplemented with an equivalent alternative resource,
        as well as styled (e.g., CSS) or transformed (e.g.,
        image to ALT text), in order to meet the needs and
        preferences of the user.

-- Charles thinks the technology is reasonably stable in
   practice but agrees that EARL is not "stable" in terms
   of process.  He therefore agrees that we might drop
   the reference to EARL, though thinks it is important to
   recommend something machine-readable.  Since DC allows
   literal text, he figures a plain-text accessibility
   statement would would be feasible though not very useful.

