Guidelines for using Agent Roles in Dublin Core (Draft)
An Appendix to: "Using Dublin Core"

1/23/04, dih
2/12/04, rsg
2/16/04, dih
9/2/04, dih
9/29/04, rsg
9/30/04, dih
5/9/05. dih
5/11/05 rsg

I1. Background 

The need to express a role for the "Agent" elements (Creator,
Contributor, and, to a lesser extent, Publisher) in the
Dublin Core element Set has been expressed for many years
and there have been a number of ideas proposed for how to
accommodate this need. A role is a term that further refines
the contribution of the agent to the resource described by
specifying the particular contribution. An example is that
"illustrator" might be a role associated with the element
Contributor when that person provided illustrations to the
resource rather than being responsible for other aspects of
the intellectual content.

The DCMI Usage Board has discussed the issue several
times and agreed that the role values are properly element
refinements. At its meeting in Florence in Oct. 2002, the
Board considered deprecating Creator and Publisher in favor
of Contributor, since the role values Creator and Publisher
could be used to refine Contributor if needed.  Because of
negative response to this level of change in the Dublin
Core element set, the DCMI Usage Board decided to recommend
role refinements only to Contributor, but to leave Creator,
Contributor and Publisher as separate elements.

Because a standardized, widely adopted list of roles already
existed in the MARC Code List for Relators, it was recommended
early in these discussions that DCMI not develop its own.
Although earlier discussions considered defining only a small
subset of the list available for use with Agent elements,
there was consensus in the DC Libraries Working Group (which
was developing an application profile including use of the
MARC relator terms) and the Usage Board  that users should
not be constrained by a restricted  list of elements and that
the entire list of relator terms should be available given
the difficulty of anticipating needs in various domains.

In order to be consistent with DCMI principles and practice,
relator terms to be used as element refinements must not
extend the scope of the semantics of dc:contributor. The
UB agreed that, in principle and practice, refinements
of elements must in every case be a valid subproperty by
refining rather than extending the semantics of that element
or property.  The obvious solution was to specify which terms
are subproperties of dc:contributor by virtue of falling
under the definition of "an entity responsible for making
contributions to the content of the resource."

2. The MARC Relator list: what it is and how it's structured 

The MARC Code List for Relators was developed by the Library of
Congress for use in MARC 21 bibliographic records to express
the relationship between a name and a work.  The list includes
both role terms and three-character codes that represent
those terms.  The terms are only included on the list when the
name and its associated role are considered important enough
to include on a bibliographic record as an access point.
The Library of Congress is the maintenance agency for this
list and regularly adds new terms when the need is expressed
and documented.

The MARC Relator list includes three-character alphabetic
codes to be used to identify roles. These are to be considered
synonyms for the terms they represent.  In addition the list
provides definitions for use of the term/code.

3.  Application

Relator terms that are considered to refine the semantics
of "an entity responsible for making contributions to
the content of the resource", are designated as such by
including a statementan assertion that it is a subproperty
of dc:contributor.  Terms that do not contain this assertion
are not to be considered a refinement of dc:contributor.
In determining whether the subproperty assertion applies, LC
and the Usage Board took a fairly narrow view.  The assertion
is included only if that contribution always applies in terms
of the content of the resource.  For example, "binder" does
not have the subproperty assertion, since it depends upon
what the resource is; sometimes a binder may contribute to
the content if the item is valued as an art object, while in
other instances, the binder has not contributed to content.

The Library of Congress has prepared an RDF expression of the
MARC relator list, to be used in conjunction with the Dublin
Core element Contributor. The following designates whether
the particular role term is a subproperty of dc:contributor
as follows:

<rdfs:subPropertyOf rdf:resource="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/contributor" />. 

In the RDF representation, the codes are tokens to be used
for the term and are part of the URI.  In some cases unused
terms refer to used terms; these are included in the RDF
representation as a note (dc:description).

For those implementations wishing to use terms from the MARC
relators list that do not have a subproperty relationship to
dc:contributor, an implementation may use these terms with
no intrinsic harm to interoperability  by using those terms
directly as MARC relator terms.  As an example:

Original term			Dumb-down			    "Simple DC"
marcrel:degreeGrantor	marcrel:degreeGrantor	---
marcrel:owner			marcrel:owner			---
marcrel:illustrator		dc:contributor			dc:contributor

Thus, in the context of a DC record based on an application
profile using MARC relator terms, usage of roles not on the
list of valid subproperties approved by DC could be used in
a Qualified DC expression, but not in a Simple DC expression,
according to the rules for dumb-down.

In order to minimize the possibility of confusion, the Usage
Board has authorized the use of roles only with the element
Contributor. Because Creator is in some sense a role elevated
to a position at the level of element, the Board decided
that it there is little value in   providing  another level
of roles beneath that particular element.

An assertion is made that marcrel:publisher is a subproperty
of dc:publisher, because its semantics are narrower; in this
instance publisher may or may not also be a contributor to
the resource, so the subproperty of contributor assertion
is not made.  In the case of marcrel:creator, an assertion
is made that it is a subproperty of  dc:creator, also
because of narrower semantics and it is also a subproperty
of dc:contributor.  If marcrel:creator is used instead of
dc:creator, this should be done consistently-- the two terms
should probably not be used together in the same instance.
In addition, the term "depicted" is asserted as a subproperty
of dc:subject and "distributor" a subproperty of dc:publisher.

Because roles are to be used only with the Contributor
element, appropriate "Dumb Down" of all agent refinements
(except "depicted" and "distributor") expressed as roles
will be to Contributor.  Given this, implementors may choose
(preferably within the context of an application profile),
to specify explicitly whether the MARC relator term of creator
should be used, based on the fact that the distinction could
be retained in Simple Dublin Core if the Element level term
is retained for those particular roles.

Using Roles in XML and other Schemas

Because the maintenance of the MARC Relator list will
remain with the Library of Congress, the namespace of the
roles will be established by LC and will not be a DCMI
namespace. Thus, schemas will need to include the MARC
relator namespace in order to properly express role terms.
See the document Guidelines for Implementing Dublin Core
in XML <http://dublincore.org/documents/dc-xml-guidelines/>
for specific information on using non-DCMI namespaces.

Terms not on the MARC Relators list

The MARC Relator list has been developed over many years
to meet a wide variety of needs.  New terms are added on
the basis of need, and LC  will continue to expand the list
upon request, and a process to evaluate new terms will be
initiated. Implementers also have the option to create and
expose alternative vocabularies for the expression of other
kinds of roles not reflected in the MARC Relator list. [d1].

Managing the Use of Role in an Implementation

The full MARC Relator list includes approximately 150
separate terms for various roles. LC also provides a list
of the subset that may be used with dc:contributor at:
http://lcweb2.loc.gov/cocoon/relators/dccontributor.html.
Even within this subset some of the roles on the list were
created for specific domains and would be of little use
in other communities.  It might therefore be useful for
implementations to declare a further subset of the role
vocabulary as relevant to their specific goals, preferably
by way of a formal application profile.

Additional Information and Examples:

A document containing additional technical information
about the use of MARC Relator terms as well as examples
of usage in XML, XHTML and RDF/XML can be found at:
http://www.ukoln.ac.uk/metadata/dcmi/marcrel-ex/

The full MARC Relator list in RDF can be found at:
http://lcweb2.loc.gov/cocoon/relators/relators.xml

The subset of terms to be used with dc:contributor is at:
http://lcweb2.loc.gov/cocoon/relators/dccontributor.html.

