------------------------------------------------------------------------
Date:         Mon, 28 Feb 2005 13:59:21 +0000
From: Andy Powell <a.powell@UKOLN.AC.UK>
Subject: DCMES definitions - possible re-wording
To: DC-USAGE@JISCMAIL.AC.UK
------------------------------------------------------------------------

On Friday, I was reminded of my action to look thru the current DCMES
definitions and suggest possible revisions to make them more in line with
the DCMI Abstract Model (DCAM).

Here are the ones that I find problematic:

---
Element Name: Format
Label: Format
Definition: The physical or digital manifestation of the resource.
Comment:  Typically, Format may include the media-type or dimensions of
  the resource. Format may be used to identify the software, hardware, or
  other equipment needed to display or operate the resource. Examples of
  dimensions include size and duration. Recommended best practice is to
  select a value from a controlled vocabulary (for example, the list of
  Internet Media Types [MIME] defining computer media formats).

Problem: The current definition implies that the value is a "manifestation
of the resource", which is not the intention.  This issue has previously
been raised on one of the the DCMI lists (I forget when and where) which
suggests that at least one real end-user has mis-interpretted this wording
in this way.

Proposed definition: The media-type or dimensions of the resource.
Proposed comment: Format may be used to identify the software, hardware,
  or other equipment needed to display or operate the resource. Examples of
  dimensions include size and duration. Recommended best practice is to
  select a value from a controlled vocabulary (for example, the list of
  Internet Media Types [MIME] defining computer media formats).

---
Element Name: Source
Label:  Source
Definition:  A Reference to a resource from which the present resource is
  derived.
Comment:  The present resource may be derived from the Source resource in
  whole or in part. Recommended best practice is to identify the referenced
  resource by means of a string or number conforming to a formal
  identification system.

Problem: As per the DCAM, the value is the related resource, not a
reference to the resource.

Proposed definition:  A resource from which the present resource is
  derived.

---
Element Name: Relation
Label:  Relation
Definition:  A reference to a related resource.
Comment:  Recommended best practice is to identify the referenced resource
  by means of a string or number conforming to a formal identification
  system.

Problem: same as with Source.

Proposed definition:  A related resource.
Proposed comment: unchanged

---
Element Name: Rights
Label:  Rights Management
Definition:  Information about rights held in and over the resource.
Comment:  Typically, Rights will contain a rights management statement for
  the resource, or reference a service providing such information. Rights
  information often encompasses Intellectual Property Rights (IPR),
  Copyright, and various Property Rights. If the Rights element is absent,
  no assumptions may be made about any rights held in or over the resource.

Problem: the comment refers both to a 'statement' and a reference to a
service that provides a statement'  This is an implementation issue anbd
shouldn't be in the comment.

Proposed definition: unchanged
Proposed comment:  Typically, Rights will contain a rights management
  statement for the resource.  Rights information often encompasses
  Intellectual Property Rights (IPR), Copyright, and various Property
  Rights. If the Rights element is absent, no assumptions may be made about
  any rights held in or over the resource.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Comments by Pete
------------------------------------------------------------------------

> Problem: As per the DCAM, the value is the related resource, not a
> reference to the resource.

[snip]

This same problem is also present in the comment for dc:description

Comment: Description may include but is not limited to: an abstract,
table of contents, reference to a graphical representation of content or
a free-text account of the content.

I think the "reference to" should be deleted (and for consistency an "a"
added before "table of contents").

So:

Proposed Comment:       Description may include but is not limited to:
an abstract, a table of contents, a graphical representation of content
or a free-text account of the content.

Re: Rights

> Proposed definition: unchanged
> Proposed comment:  Typically, Rights will contain a rights management
>   statement for the resource.  Rights information often encompasses
>   Intellectual Property Rights (IPR), Copyright, and various Property
>   Rights. If the Rights element is absent, no assumptions may be made
about
>   any rights held in or over the resource.

This hadn't occurred to me before but after writing all that stuff about
XML elements not being DC elements, I wondered whether the use of
"contain" in the first sentence of the comment is also slightly
misleading/inappropriate in the light of the DCAM.

XML elements are containers, and they have content.

But DC elements are not containers and do not have content: they are
properties and they describe relationships between resources and values.

So it might be recast as something like

"Typically, a rights management statement for the resource is provided."

or

"Typically, rights information includes a rights management statement
for the resource."

