------------------------------------------------------------------------
Accessibility Working Group 
AccessForAllFramework 
Converted from the text at: http://dublincore.org/accessibilitywiki/AccessForAllFramework
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Contributions to this document are very welcome,
however significant changes should be first discussed
on the dc-accessibility mailing list. To join or
leave the dc-accessibility mailing list, please visit
http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/lists/dc-accessibility.html.

AccessForAll: an Accessibility Framework 

Introduction 

This document explains the AccessForAll accessibility
framework. The intended audience of this document is anyone
interested in accessibility and standards, especially those
from the metadata community. A small proficiency in software
design is assumed from the reader (for this document uses
UML in some of its explanations), however the hope is that
the concepts are explained clearly enough to be understood
by readers of any technical skill-level.

What is AccessForAll 

AccessForAll is a framework designed to define and describe
resource accessibility. Its goal is to provide a means
whereby resources are matched to the accessibility preferences
expressed within an individual preference set. The framework
is divided into the following concepts, which, when used
in conjunction, make possible the matching of resources to
preference sets and the description of resource accessibility:

    access mode 
    alternative resource 
    adaptation preference and property 
    standards conformance 

These concepts and their interaction will be discussed
further in this document, alongside the presentation of the
AccessForAll abstract model.

History 

The concepts behind the AccessForAll framework were originally
developed by the IMS Accessibility Working Group1. The working
group defined two specifications: the IMS Accessibility for
Learner Information Package (AccLIP) and the IMS AccessForAll
Meta-data [sp] Specification (AccMD). Together they defined
what is currently the AccessForAll framework in an applied,
XML-specific way. This document hopes to explain the main
concepts behind the AccLIP and AccMD, i.e.  the AccessForAll
framework, in an abstract way.

AccessForAll Abstract Model 

Introduction 

This section specifies an abstract model for the AccessForAll framework. The 
primary purpose of this section is to provide a reference model against which 
particular metadata encodings can be written. 

AccessForAll abstract model 

The abstract model of the preference sets defined in the AccessForAll framework 
is as follows: 

    Each preference set has zero or more required access modes.
    Each preference set has zero or more prohibited access modes. 
    Each preference set has zero or more adaptation preference / value pairs. 

The abstract model of the resources defined in the AccessForAll
framework is as follows:

    Each resource has one or more access modes [2].
    Each resource may be related to zero or more alternative resources. 
    Each resource has zero or more adaptation property / value pairs. 
    Each adaptation property matches an adaptation preference. 
    Each adaptation property value / pair may contain access mode information. 
    Each resource conforms to zero or more standards. 

The AccessForAll abstract model for resources and recods
is represented as a UML class diagram in the following
illustration (see
http://gabriel.sub.uni-goettingen.de/~tbaker/madrid/files/2005-09-04.AccessForAll-AbstractModel.png).

Readers not familiar with UML class diagrams should note that
lines ending in a block-arrow should be read as 'is' or 'is a'
(for example, 'a required access mode is an access mode ')
and that lines starting with a block-diamond should be read as
'contains a' or 'has a' (for example, 'an adaptation property /
value pair has a value and a property'). Other relationships
are labeled appropriately [3].

Access mode 

    An access mode is the human sense or medium though which
    a user receives the output of a resource. The mode refers
    to either the perceptual system, or the cognitive faculty
    engaged by the user. An access mode is defined either
    as a sense, to reference a perceptual system, or as a
    medium to connect with a cognitive ability. Some examples
    will clarify:

    Describing a resource's access mode as "visual" implies that
    a user will use their visual system to process it. Pictorial
    and video resources are examples of such resources.

    Describing a resource's access mode as "textual" implies
    that a user will rely on their ability to read in order
    to understand the resource's content [4].

Alternative resource 

    An alternative resource is the same intellectual content
    of the referenced resource, but presented in another
    access mode.

Adaptation preference and property 

    An adaptation preference states how a user desires to
    access a resource. In effect, it defines how a resource
    should be adapted in order to provide adequate means of
    access to a user. An adaptation property is a statement
    describing characteristics of the resource that affect how
    it can be sensed, understood, or interacted with by users
    or agents [5]. The two share a reflexive relationship in that
    an adaptation property matches an adaptation preference.

Conforms to 

    A reference to an established standard to which the
    resource conforms [6].

Putting it all together 

Preference Set 

    A user is able to state his/her required and prohibited
    access modes. In this way a user can state what
    he/she wants and what he/she does not want for an
    access mode. In addition to this for each required,
    prohibited, or combination of required and prohibited
    access modes, a user is able to state his/her adaptation
    preferences. Adaptation preferences may qualify the
    required and prohibited access modes with information about
    the adaptation characteristics of the resources the user
    wishes to interact with, however they may also stand alone.

Resource 

    A resource declares its access mode(s). A resource may be
    an alternative to another resource and another resource
    may be an alternative to it. In addition to its access
    mode(s), a resource states its adaptation properties. A
    resource may conform to a number of standards.

Matching resources to preference sets 

The goal of the AccessForAll framework is to match resources
to preference sets.  The following is a list of guidelines
for matching resources to preference sets:

    A resource or alternative resource's access mode is the
    same as the preference set's required access mode.

    A resource or alternative resource's access mode is not
    the same as the preference set's prohibited access mode.

    A resource or alternative resource's adaptation properties
    match the preference set's adaptation preferences.

    A resource or alternative resource's adaptation property
    values are the same as the preference set's adaptation
    preference values.

    A resource or alternative resource conforms to a standard
    that satisfies the preference set's adaptation preferences
    and values. [Editorial Note: This statement needs further
    explanation.]

Appendix A Relationship with Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 

The Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) are a set of principles and 
guidelines that define and explain the "requirements for making Web-based 
information and applications accessible to a wide range of people with 
disabilities [7]." The WCAG does not define new technologies, but rather techniques 
that can be applied to any type of Web content. The AccessForAll framework 
defines a different approach to resource accessibility, however one that 
complements the WCAG: The AccessForAll Framework states (via metadata on 
resources) the accessibility properties that are recommended by the WCAG. This 
enables the AccessForAll Framework a means whereby resources can be matched to 
the accessibility preferences expressed within an individual preference set. 

Appendix B Editors 

David Weinkauf, Adaptive Technology Resource Centre, University of Toronto, 
Canada 

Joseph Scheuhammer, Adaptive Technology Resource Centre, University of Toronto, 
Canada 

Appendix C Contributors 

Anastasia Cheetham, Adaptive Technology Resource Centre, University of Toronto, 
Canada 

Martyn Cooper, Accessibility in Educational Media Team, Institute of Educational 
Technology, Open Univerity, UK 

Andy Heath, Sheffield-Hallam University, UK 

Liddy Nevile, Computer Science Department, La Trobe University, Australia 

Madeleine Rothberg, WGBH-National Center for Accessible Media, USA 

Jutta Treviranus, Faculty of Information Sciences, University of Toronto, Canada 

1 The Website for the IMS Accessibility Working Group is
located at http://www.imsglobal.org/accessibility.

2 We acknowledge that declaring mandatory properties on
a resource is unrealistic for most metadata practices,
however the compulsory nature of access modes as properties
of resources is true in reality, and is thus reflected as
such in the abstract model.

3 UML explanation from the DCMI abstract model
(http://www.dublincore.org/documents/abstract-model/).

4 Textual content may be rendered into speech or Braille by
a processing system, however these would not be considered
the resource's (original) access modes.

5 Current definition of the
proposed Dublin Core Adaptation term
(http://dublincore.org/accessibilitywiki/NewElementProposal).

6 Definition of the Dublin Core conformsTo element refinement
(http://www.dublincore.org/documents/usageguide/qualifiers.shtml#conformsTo).

7 From the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.0
(http://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20/).

RefreshCache for this page (cached 2005-09-02 06:05:22)

EditText of this page (last edited 2005-09-01 18:43:12 by
DavidWeinkauf)
