------------------------------------------------------------------------
2005-07-19: Review of Application Profiles - excerpts from
notes of May 19 (Washington) meeting
------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Agreed that general shift in focus from individual terms to
    application profiles is a good thing.

    However, several questions/issues:

    * Need to clarify what "approving an application profile"
      means.

    * What does adding a term to an extension namespace mean --
      I.e. what is DCMI saying by doing this?

    * What value is there in short term commitment to maintenance?

    * What is the current DCTERMS namespace for if we move
      to extension namespaces?

    * The bulk of UB work is in considering new terms - what will
      UB do less of once we have extension namespaces?

    * DCMI WGs have a requirement for creating and managing
      vocabularies -- how do extension namespaces help?

    * What do we want to say about application profiles and their
      component terms?

    * What is a "Strategic activity"?

    * Are there legal and social issues with DCMI assigning URIs
      to terms (particularly encoding schemes) that refer to
      things owned by other people?

    Note that "conforming" currently means "conforms to grammatical
    principles" and the UB process (section 4.0) also says that
    conforming terms "do not conflict with or create ambiguity with
    existing terms" and that they are not both "cross domain" and
    "resource discovery" -- we have no current way of saying that
    a term simply "conforms to the AM".  "Recommended" currently
    means "conforming" and "cross domain" and "resource discovery".

    Could possibly revise the meanings of our statuses to be:

    * Conforming = conforms with AM

    * Recommended = conforming plus no overlaps with existing terms

    Whether a term is "cross-domain" or not is orthogonal to this.

    Need to define what "conforms to the AM" means -- need a
    decision tree.  Action: Andy

    Need to define other statuses (e.g. "Recommended") and what
    they mean -- need decision tree(s).  Action: Diane, Stuart

    These statuses and decision trees need to be able to be
    applied to individual elements, element refinements and
    encoding schemes and to application profiles.

    What does a "review" of an application profile consist of?

    * Evaluate all elements, element refinements and encoding
      schemes for conformance with the AM

        o This should result in assigning a status of
          "conforming" or "recommended" to terms that currently
          don't have a status (new meanings - i.e. they all
          conform to the AM).

        o Terms in non-DCMI namespaces should be documented
          according to DCMI requirements and have persistent
          URIs supported by known policies.

        o All terms must have an assigned URI (by DCMI or by
          external organisation).

        o If necessary, assign a URI in a DCMI namespace
          (DCTERMS or a DCMI extension namespace) and place
          documentation on the DCMI site.

    * Review AP-specific comments for clarity and to ensure that
      they do not extend existing term semantics

    * Check that AP documentation conforms to DCMI requirements
      (CEN guidelines or revised version)

    * Review and document evidence of community buy-in to the AP
      (as a whole)

    * Consider whether the AP does was it says it does -- i.e. does
      it meet its documented functional requirements

    * Produce a "review report"

    If the AP meets all these requirements then it is "conforming".

Possible changes to CEN guidelines for AP -- Action: Tom

    * Details about assigning URIs to terms

    * Contextual info about why particular terms were chosen.

Process prior to UB meeting:

    * Assign shepherds (reports for packet by 1 Sept)

        o Overall shepherd: Andrew
        o Evaluation individual terms against AM: Andrew, Andy
        o Check comments: Akira
        o Check documentation: Tom
        o Check community buy-in: Andrew
        o Check functional requirements: Tom

    * There should be an single announcement about the AP and all
      terms within the AP that don not currently have a DCMI status
      on dc-general by the shepherd -- the comment period should be
      one month (announced Mon 25 July)

    * With regard to the AP we're looking for views on fitness
      for purpose, wider community buy-in and commentary on
      semantic overlaps -- primary measure of community buy-in is
      thru the WG.

    Agreed that initial review of new terms and APs is to determine
    conformance to AM or not.  Review of AP will also result in a
    "review report" -- but need to determine the level of comment
    in the report

Need longer term roadmap of where APs can go, e.g.

    WG ----> conformance ----> WG -----> recommended.

    Need documentation for minimal proposal of new term -- Action:

    Suggestion that 

What namespace do "new" terms go into?  

    OPTION 1

        * If elements, element refinements that are not
          in other namespaces are "recommended" and
          "cross-domain" then they go into the DCTerms
          namespace.  Otherwise they go into a DCMI extension
          namespace.

        * All vocabulary terms that are not in other namespaces go
          into a DCMI extension namespace.

    OPTION 2

        * All "new" elements, element refinements and encoding
          schemes that are not in other namespaces go into
          DCTERMS namespace.

        * All vocabulary terms that are not in other namespaces go
          into a DCMI extension namespace.

    OPTION 3

        * Everything goes into an extension namespace

    OPTION 4 (as per BoT proposal)

        * If proposal originates from a strategic activity
          it goes into an extension namespace

        * Everything else goes into DCTerms.

What namespace URI should we use?   

    Depends on the OPTIONS above.  

        If OPTION 1, proposal to use:
        
            http://purl.org/dcx/cdwg/    - an acronym with implied semantics
         OR http://purl.org/dcx/2005/06/ - a date stamp
         OR http://purl.org/dcx/01/      - something neutral (eg, sequential number)

        If OPTION 2, proposal to use:

            http://purl.org/dcx/vocab_name/

Summary position of UB on extension namespaces proposal:

    * Agree with move to using APs as primary mechanism for
      proposing new terms.  Will develop documentation for WGs to
      encourage and support this.

    * Agree with need to provide home for WG-generated
      vocabularies.  Will develop new namespaces and associated
      documentation for vocabularies.

    * It is not clear that there is currently a demonstrable
      need for new namespaces for elements, element refinements
      and encoding schemes, and we see no pressing need to put new
      terms into extension namespaces.  Under proposals above the
      "approval" process for new elements, element refinements and
      encoding schemes is unchanged -- therefore can continue using
      existing DCTERMS namespace for them, at least until we see how
      things progress as a result of moving to greater use of APs.

    * Recognise a need to structure documentation about DCMI terms
      to emphasise a core set and to de-emphasise domain-specific
      terms. The UB proposes to address this problem by reviewing
      the statuses we assign to terms and the ones already assigned.

