------------------------------------------------------------------------
Date: Thu, 25 Aug 2005 13:48:25 +0100
From: Pete Johnston <p.johnston@ukoln.ac.uk>
------------------------------------------------------------------------

I've noted the two outstanding issues with the "content"
of the DC CD AP:

-- clarifying whether Location and Service are distinct and
   if they are what the relationships are between Collection
   and Location and Collection and Service

-- how to represent the fact that a collection contains some
   items of format F

I'm proposing to discuss both of these ate the meeting of
the DC CD WG in Madrid.

I've left the isLocatedIn and isAccessedVia properties in
the DC CD AP, but essentially they are placeholders for a
final solution, so I suggest the UB skips over examining them
(though of course any thoughts from UB on the problem would
be welcome!)

For the date stuff, in the absence of a proposal for a solution
from DC Date WG, I've gone ahead and referenced the format used
in RKMS. If DC Date WG does propose a suitable format/scheme
then I'll happily switch over to that.

More on the general modelling side of things - the "what
are we doing in a DCAP?" sort of questions which I think UB
is more interested in - I still have some niggling doubts
about the relationship between the way a DCAP "contextualises
the use of" a property (I've stopped saying "redefines" or
"narrows the definition of") and subproperty relations.

For example, in the DC CD AP

-- the property dc:relation is used with vocabulary encoding
   scheme dcmitype:Collection to indicated an "association"
   of unspecified type between the described collection and
   a second collection;

-- the property dcterms:isReferencedBy is used with no
   vocabulary encoding scheme specified to indicated that
   the reference publication is based on the study of the
   described collection.

I think both of these are consistent with the definitions
of the properties (OK, in the second case it might be a bit
loose - but if it is based on the study of the collection,
it must reference it, I think)

But the fact that dcterms:isReferencedBy is a subproperty
of dc:relation implies that every statement made referring
to dcterms:isReferenced By implies a statement referring
to dc:relation.

So

collection:C dcterms:isReferencedBy book:B .

implies

collection:C dc:relation book:B .

Which is pefectly fine given the DCMI definition of dc:relation
- there _is_ a relation of some type between the collection
and the book.

However, the inferred statement does _not_ correspond to the
"use" we are making of dc:relation in the DC CD AP - book:B
is not an "associated collection".

I think this is a general issue when a DCAP "uses" both a
property and a subproperty of that property. I'm not sure
whether this really is a problem and /or what to do about it,
but it provides a good topic for discussion, I think!

One solution would be to say "don't ever do that" in
a DCAP, and you should coin a new subproperty for the
case where you use the property - so in this case, coin
cld:associatedCollection (subprop of dc:relation) and use
that instead of dc:relation. Both would imply a straight
dc:relation statement, and as the DCAP isn't "contextualising"
dc:relation, there is no clash of interpretation.

And/or you say the interpretation of the property is _always_
only that of the source definition - and the stuff in the
DCAP is just a guideline for the metadata _creator_, not for
the consumer.... Again, if you want to make explicit that
your association is something different from dc:relation,
then you need a new subproperty.

I'm tempted to say that defining new subproperties is
a _better_ strategy than "narrowing/contextualising" the
definitions of existing properties in the name of "reuse". We
should _not_ feel it is "bad" to define new properties where
it is appropriate to do so. Yes, you get more terms in use,
but that isn't necessarily "wrong" - "proliferation" doesn't
mean no interoperability. the subproperty relation tells
my application that the statement made using this thing
it has never seen before implies a statement made using
dc:relation. That is the point of having the concept of
subproperty in the DCAM.

