------------------------------------------------------------------------
Accessibility Working Group 
ResponseToUsageBoard 
Converted from the text at: http://dublincore.org/accessibilitywiki/ResponseToUsageBoard
------------------------------------------------------------------------

THIS IS A DRAFT FOR DISCUSSION ONLY! 

Aim of this doc is to: 
-- briefly characterize and point to current work or position papers, 
-- summarize the reactions of WG members to the decision text, and 
-- summarize in a paragraph or so the discussion on Adaptation versus Accessibility. 

Usage Board Decision Components with Responses 

Changing the name of the element from "Accessibility" to "Adaptation" 

The scope of the proposed element was originally everything
to do with accessibility. In the light of the Usage Board's
comments, and other considerations, it was decided to narrow
the scope of the new element to be one that dealt only with
the major aspect that was not already covered in Dublin Core,
the adaptation characteristics of the resource, and to use
it and re-use other Dublin Core elements in an accessibility
application profile.

This change allowed the structure of the values for the new
element to be significantly simplified and also allowed
it to be more easily generalised for other applications,
such as for device independence uses to do with mobility,
and flexibility for e-learning. It also meant the name could
be changed to disambiguate the element with access which
seemed to cause some people problems.  Instead of singling
out accessibility, it acts to mainstream accessibility issues,
satisfying another issue that caused concern to some.

Changing the definition of the element 

The definition of the proposed 'accessibility' term was: 

    A statement describing characteristics of the resource
    that affect how it can be adapted so it can be perceived,
    understood or interacted with by users.

With a narrower scope element about adaptation characteristics,
the current proposal is for:

    A statement describing characteristics of the resource
    that affect how it can be sensed, understood, or interacted
    with by users or agents.

There has been significant discussion of these changes. A
couple of people commented on the DC-Accessibility mailing
list that they were not sure about the changes, including
one who was on the Task Group, but there has been a lot of
informal discussion in the accessibility community in general
and within the task group and the consensus is that adaptation
is a better term and the narrow scope is more useful than the
original wider 'accessibility'. All the work has been exposed
on the DC-Accessibility Wiki for some time and it has been
presented in major fora such as the W3C annual conference,
accessibility conferences, standards organisations including
ISO JTC1 SC36, and more.

UB members considered it necessary to put the changed proposal
through the standard procedure of discussion and approval
by the wider Accessibility/Adaptation community, along with
a public comment period, before it could be approved by the
Usage Board. This has been done. There was also discussion
about a new working group for adaptation but that proposal
has been withdrawn.

Relationship between new element and DC Abstract Model 

The Usage Board questioned how an Adaptation element fits
into the DCMI Abstract Model. Work on this was undertaken
by the Task group who have developed an abstract model for
the new element and clarified how it complies with the DC
Abstract Model. See AccessForAllFramework.

Specific concerns of the Usage Board with respect to the abstract model: 

    As proposed, the element is intended to hold several property-value pairs within 
    a value string for a single element. 

The need for structured values has been avoided with the new proposal. 

    A basic requirement was pointing from a Dublin Core
    description to an "alternative description" of the same
    resource.

This has been avoided by the adoption of the narrower scope for
the element and the re-use of the existing relation element.

    The set of properties needed to describe a resource
    from the standpoint of accessibility seemed to overlap
    with the set of properties needed to describe a
    resource using Dublin Core itself (e.g., Type, Format,
    Language, and Relation).  Accordingly, the alternative,
    accessibility-oriented description pointed to from a Dublin
    Core description could perhaps itself be an application
    profile of Dublin Core.

With the exception of the new narrow element, this is true as
so this approach has been adopted. The new element provides
information about a resource which is not appropriately
expressed in any existing element. The final application
profile is not yet developed, but there has been considerable
work to ensure that the new term is necessary and if so,
what the application profile would look like. This work is
reported at AccessForAllApplicationProfile.

RefreshCache for this page (cached 2005-09-02 05:58:27)

EditText of this page (last edited 2005-09-01 12:59:32 by DavidWeinkauf) 
