------------------------------------------------------------------------
From: "Childress,Eric" <childree@oclc.org>
Date: Fri, 29 Jul 2005 10:46:56 -0400
------------------------------------------------------------------------

To: Thomas Baker, Chair, DC Usage Board
From: Eric Childress, Chair, DC Date Working Group

I'm pleased to report that the DC Date Working Group has
completed work on a matter referred to it by the DC Usage
Board.

Per recent deliberations and an 11-0 vote, the DC Date WG
recommends that the following text supplant the extant text
in the comment associated with the official Dublin Core
definition of the DC Date element:

    Typically, Date will be associated with the creation or
    availability of the resource. A date value may be a single date
    or a date range. Date values may express temporal information
    at any level of granularity (including time). Recommended
    best practice for encoding the date value is to supply an
    unambiguous representation of the single date or date range
    using a widely-recognized syntax (e.g., YYYY-MM-DD for a single
    date; YYYY-MM-DD/YYYY-MM-DD for a date range; YYYY-MM-DDTHH:MM
    to specify a single date and time down to the minute).

The suggested change in content of the text of  the DC Date
comment addresses an issue identified by the UB, namely that
the existing definition and comment failed to explicitly
communicate that the DC Date element value could be a date
range -- this has always been understood to be permitted by
most parties active in Dublin Core standards work, but the
UB and members of the DC Date WG have had indications that
some readers of the extant text have on occasion been led to
conclude date range values were not permitted. Changing the
text of the comment rather than altering the definition of DC
Date was recommended in Shanghai by DC Date WG member, Douglas
Campbell, and the tactic agreed to by the UB and DC Date WG.

The revised text above clarifies that date range is permitted.
Additional stylistic and substantial changes have been
made to enhance readability and clarify that various levels
of granularity (e.g., time) are permitted. Also, explicit
references to particular encoding schemes have been removed in
favor of some simple ISO 8601-compliant patterns as examples
of possible syntax for representing commonly used categories
of date and time.

