----------------------------------------------------------------------
2007-02-14 Proposed simplification of process (Makx)
 
We are talking about four categories of proposals:
 
1. Proposed changes to Dublin Core metadata terms
2. Proposals for new or revised DCMI Recommendations
3. Proposals for DCMI Recommended Resources (incl. Application Profiles)
4. Proposals for DCMI Process Documents
 
First of all, it seems to me that we don't want to limit sources of
these proposals. They can come from the Directorate (e.g. as a result of
an outsourced activity), Affiliates, Communities, Task Groups, other
organisations (e.g. W3C, LOM) or any individual.
 
Any document that goes into the approval process needs to be submitted
to the DCMI Managing Director using the Proposal Submission Form.
Proposals may be submitted by e-mail as plain text, HTML or PDF, or as
links to external resources.
 
The Directorate acknowledges receipt and decides whether a document
falls in one of the four categories, in consultation with the Advisory
Board. The decision is communicated to the submitter no later than two
months after submission with specification of the process and timeline
foreseen.
 
1. Dublin Core metadata terms
 
Proposals are evaluated by the DCMI Usage Board within four weeks from
submission.
If the advice from the Usage Board is negative, the Directorate rejects
the proposal and informs the submitter with reasons for rejection.
If the advice is positive, the Directorate prepares for public comment.
Any comments from the UB are communicated to submitters who get the
opportunity to make modifications based upon those comments. If major
changes are being made, the proposal needs to be re-submitted.
Public comment is open for a minimum of four weeks, announced by
Directorate on DC-GENERAL and on the DCMI Web site and published on the
Public Comment page.
If serious objections are expressed by the public, the Directorate
decides what to do, in consultation with the Usage Board: (a) reject the
proposal and inform the submitter with reasons, giving the option to
re-submit with changes, or (b) ask submitters to make minor changes to
the proposal.
If no serious objections are received, the Usage Board incorporates the
proposal in the documentation of Dublin Core terms, after which the
Directorate publishes the Recommendation on the DCMI Web site and
announces to DC-GENERAL and DCMI Web site.
 
2. DCMI Recommendations
 
Proposals are given status of Proposed Recommendation or Proposed
Revised Recommendation in cases where a Recommendation already exists.
Proposals go through review in the Advisory Board first. Minimum review
period: four weeks.
After negative review, Directorate informs submitter with reasons for
rejection. Modified proposals can be re-submitted.
If AB review is positive, Directorate prepares for public comment. Any
comments from the AB are communicated to submitters who get the
opportunity to make modifications based upon those comments. If major
changes are being made, the proposal needs to be re-submitted.
Public comment is open for a minimum of four weeks, announced by
Directorate on DC-GENERAL and on the DCMI Web site and published on the
Public Comment page.
If serious objections are expressed by the public, the Directorate
decides what to do, in consultation with the Advisory Board: (a) reject
the proposal and inform the submitter with reasons, giving the option to
re-submit with changes, or (b) ask submitters to make minor changes to
the proposal.
After successful public comment, the Directorate publishes the
Recommendation on the DCMI Web site and announces to DC-GENERAL and DCMI
Web site.
 
3. DCMI Recommended Resources
 
Evaluation and subsequent acceptance or rejection of the proposal are at
the discretion of the Directorate, in consultation with the Advisory
Board.
In the special case of Application Profiles that are being proposed as
best-practice example, the proposal is assigned to the Usage Board and
evaluated according to the published criteria. The Usage Board advises
the Directorate on acceptance or rejection of such proposals.
Decision on acceptance or rejection is taken by the Directorate and
communicated to the submitter no later than six months after the
submission of the proposal.
Rejections are communicated to the submitter with reasons for rejection.
The Directorate announces the acceptance of proposals to the DC-GENERAL
and the DCMI Web site. The Recommended Resource is published on the DCMI
Web site (possibly as a link to the resource).
 
4. DCMI Process Documents
 
Evaluation and subsequent acceptance or rejection of the proposal are at
the discretion of the Directorate, in consultation with the Advisory
Board. Decision on acceptance or rejection are taken by the Directorate
and communicated to the submitter no later than two months after the
submission of the proposal.
Rejections are communicated to the submitter with reasons for rejection.
The Directorate announces the acceptance of proposals to the DC-GENERAL
and the DCMI Web site. The Recommended Resource is published on the DCMI
Web site.
 
