------------------------------------------------------------------------
Date: Tue, 9 Mar 2004 16:40:05 -0500 (EST)
From: Rebecca S. Guenther <rgue@loc.gov>
To: Andy Powell <a.powell@ukoln.ac.uk>
Cc: dih1@cornell.edu
Subject: IMPORTANT: Roles
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Here are my comments on your markup and where I do and don't agree. We've
had some previous email on the question of the narrowness of semantics in
dc:contributor. Your answer concerning the value of core vs. some of these
more specific roles that are outside core is well taken. But I still argue
that what is a contributor is in the mind of the beholder; i.e. it depends
upon what sort of resource you are describing. If in the legal field, the
plaintiff may be a contributor if it is a transcript of the proceedings. I
could argue that for almost everything on the list. Also, I didn't think
you were consistent in your assessment (not that it was an easy job!). So
here are those that I don't entirely agree with:

Applicant: if the resource were an application for something, this would
certainly be a contributor.

Attributed name: "Use to relate an author, artist, etc. to a work for
which there is or once was substantial authority for designating that
person as author, creator, etc. of the work."
This says it is possibly a contributer, although it is not certain, so
should be a refinement of contributor.

Auctioneer: what if the resource is a list of items to be
auctioned; the auctioneer would have contributed.

Bibliographic antecedent: "Use for the author responsible for a work upon
which the work represented by the catalog record is based. This may be
appropriate for adaptations, sequels, continuations, indexes, etc."
The only reason I could see for you not considering this as contributor is
the 1:1 principle, but I don't think you can control how people are
describing these works. We already know that there is lots of controversy
about that. Certainly the "bibliographic antecedent" played a role in the
creation of the resource.

Client: "a person or organization for whom another person of organization
is acting"
This is what is used e.g. for the owner of a house that an architect
designed. I would certainly think the client would have input in that
design so would consider a contributor.

Complainant: "Use for the party who applies to the courts for redress,
usually in an equity proceeding."
I won't list all of the legal terms that are in this document, but for any
of them, if the resource is the proceeding itself, I would consider them
contributors to the content of the resource. You have excluded all of the
legal terms (and there are lots of them).

Contractor: Often the contractor does all the intellectual work.

Copyright claimant: if the resource is a copyright registration, then this
and copyright holder would be contributors.

Dedicator: Use for the author of a dedication, which may be a formal
statement or in epistolary or verse form.
If some famous person wrote the dedication, I would bet you would want to
consider him a contributor-- it is part of the intellectual content,
although perhaps a small part.

Degree grantor: wouldn't that institution have provided much that
contributed to the intellectual content? Can you imagine all these theses
and dissertation projects not being able to call the institution a
contributor??

Distributor: should this be a subProperty of publisher? (or maybe we're
not making these associations)

Expert: "Use for a person in charge of the description and appraisal of
the value of goods, particularly rare items, works of art, etc. "
What if an art catalog of some sort?

Under funder: The part highlighted as being incomplete I can remove-- it
was part of a reference that should not be there.

Monitor: "Use for a person or organization that supervises compliance with
the contract and is responsible for the report and controls its
distribution. Sometimes referred to as the grantee, or controlling
agency."
This you indicated was refinement of contributor, but why this and not
others that don't have a direct contribution?

Opponent: "Use for the person or corporate body responsible for opposing a
thesis or dissertation."
You have this one as contributor, but not, e.g. degree grantor.

Other: this is our extension mechanism. I can understand why you wouldn't
want it to be included.
This does bring up to me how we will maintain this document if we start
removing terms. But I guess that's our problem.

Patent applicant and patent holder: same as copyright; what if the
resource is a description of the patent?

Patron: why this and not client? Seem to be similar roles.

Publisher: should this be a subProperty of Contributor, since creator is?

Witness: you've included this one as contributor, but none of the other
legal terms (which I would argue should all be included).

This exercise brings up the question:

Are we creating a "core" list of roles? Previous discussion said no, we
don't want to do that. Application profiles can do that.
or
Are we just saying that the term does or does not refine contributor? But
then you have to think broadly what the possible resource could be which
is being described.

This exercise again says to me that maybe it isn't best to decide for
others what they want to consider as contributors, since it depends on
what they're describing.

So where do we go from here? If you want to comment on those above, I'll
just accept it and update the document. My argument for some not mentioned
above was the need for access to the resource from the name whose role is
the term from this list. You answered that by saying use the term as one
from the marc namespace. I'll accept that, although I still question
whether we should be doing this. It also means that for any new roles that
we propose adding to our MARC list, we will have to bring it to the UB to
see if it refines contributor, rather than just automatically adding? This
will make maintenance a bit of a headache.

Sorry for the length of this message and being such a pain. Copied to
Diane so that she can comment. If we can come to some conclusion right
away I can revise on Wed.-- leaving Thurs. night (I'll be in the office
for most of Thurs.).

Rebecca

On Mon, 23 Feb 2004, Andy Powell wrote:

> On Thu, 19 Feb 2004, Rebecca S. Guenther wrote:
>
> > If you do the first, will you also attempt to evaluate whether the given
> > term is a refinement of dc:contributor? That seems to me what will take
> > the most time. That approach is fine with me if that's what you meant. I
> > would then see if I agree. In the meantime I might look at the list and
> > independently try to assess which should be contributor and which not.
>
> My first attempt is at
>
> http://www.ukoln.ac.uk/metadata/dcmi/marcrel/codes.xml
>
> Note that it addition to removing subproperty of dc:contributor in quite a
> few cases, I have also done the following
>
> - marcrel:cre --euqivalentproperty--> dc:creator
> - marcrel:aut --euqivalentproperty--> dc:creator
> - marcrel:pbl --euqivalentproperty--> dc:publisher
> - marcrel:dpc --subpropertyof-------> dc:subject
>
> And I've corrected the URL for dc:contributor throughout! :-)
>
> I've checked this file still validates.
>
> Andy.
>

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Date:         Wed, 10 Mar 2004 21:28:46 -0000
From: Pete Johnston <p.johnston@UKOLN.AC.UK>
Subject: Re: IMPORTANT: Roles (fwd)
To: DC-USAGE@JISCMAIL.AC.UK
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Rebecca,

> Here are my comments on your markup and where I do and don't
> agree. We've had some previous email on the question of the
> narrowness of semantics in dc:contributor. Your answer
> concerning the value of core vs. some of these more specific
> roles that are outside core is well taken. But I still argue
> that what is a contributor is in the mind of the beholder;
> i.e. it depends upon what sort of resource you are
> describing. If in the legal field, the plaintiff may be a
> contributor if it is a transcript of the proceedings. I could
> argue that for almost everything on the list. Also, I didn't
> think you were consistent in your assessment (not that it was
> an easy job!). So here are those that I don't entirely agree with:

[snip]

> This exercise again says to me that maybe it isn't best to
> decide for others what they want to consider as contributors,
> since it depends on what they're describing.

Just to clarify.... by declaring a property example:role a sub-property
of dc:contributor, we are saying that:

If you state

_x example:role _y

then (in all cases) I can infer that

_x dc:contributor _y

so we should only make the sub-property assertion where that rule holds
in all cases.

Now, if example:role is _not_ declared as a sub-property of
dc:contributor I can't draw the conclusion above. _However_, it doesn't
stop you saying (where appropriate) that both

_x example:role _y

and

_x dc:contributor _y

i.e. it doesn't mean an agent who is a plaintiff can't also be a
contributor; it just means I can't infer that all plaintiffs are
contributors. Which is what we want, I think?

(I think maybe it's a bit confusing to think of these properties as
"roles": they describe relationships between a resource and an
entity/agent, just as the dc:contributor property does.)

