----------------------------------------------------------------------
Appendix A: Excerpts from 2006 UB process
            http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/2006/02/13/process/

6. Proposals for registration of application profiles

    6.1. Application Profiles subject to review. Application
         profiles emanating from DCMI Strategic Activities may
         be reviewed by the Usage Board. Metadata implementers
         (established projects, communities or research groups)
         may also request review, subject to approval by the UB
         Chair. /Point to information regarding DCMI Strategic
         Activities when available./

    6.2. Documentation of Application Profiles. Application
         profiles must provide, for each term, an identifier of the
         element set where it is defined, ideally in the form of
         URIs for individual terms. If the terms in an application
         profile describe anything other than generic "resources"
         (the typical domain of Dublin Core), the application
         profile must make this clear. This is particularly
         important if an application profile is based on a data
         model that describes multiple classes of resources,
         such as agents or collections. It is recommended that
         application profiles be prepared using the guidelines
         <http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/profile-guidelines>.

    6.4. Contextual information about Application
         Profiles. The documentation for each Application Profile
         must provide -- or point to a short text that describes --
         the context and purposes in which the application profile
         is used or is likely to be used; the organizations or
         individuals involved in its development and a capsule
         history thereof; and any arrangements, policies,
         or intentions regarding the future development and
         maintenance of the application profile.

    6.5. Evaluation of terms in Application Profiles. The
         use of terms related to Dublin Core (such as refinements
         of Dublin Core elements, or Dublin Core elements that
         have been constrained for particular contexts) will be
         evaluated from the standpoint of semantic conformance,
         grammatical principle (eg, "dumb-down"), clarity, and
         good practice. /Note: revisit this./

    6.6. Assignment of status "conforming". Application
         profiles which pass review will be assigned the status
         of Conforming.  The status of Conforming indicates a Usage
         Board assessment of the application profile as of the date
         of its submission for review. Changes to already Conforming
         application profiles require further Usage Board review
         of the application profile in whole or in part according
         to the processes and criteria outlined in sections 6.1
         through 6.3.

    6.7. Publication of Usage Board reviews of Application Profiles.
         For application profiles that "pass" review, the Usage Board will
         publish a Review on a Web page for application profiles. Each Review
         will include, at a minimum: any comments from the Usage Board on the
         application profile; pointers to locally archived copies of the
         application profile as originally submitted and (if necessary) as
         subsequently amended in light of Usage Board comments; a pointer
         (with appropriate disclaimers) to the "latest version" of an
         application profile held by its maintainers.

    6.8. Persistent identifiers for reviewed Application Profiles.
         Review represents a form of recognition, and its URL will be
         persistent for purposes of citation.

7. New terms proposed with an Application Profile

    7.1. Evaluation of new terms. New terms appearing in application
         profile submissions must be evaluated for compliance with the DCMI
         Abstract Model prior to evaluation of the Application Profile itself.

    7.2. Assignment of DCMI term URIs and status. New terms deemed in
         compliance with the DCMI Abstract Model may be given URIs in DCMI
         namespaces and assigned a status of Conforming.

    7.3. Conformance criteria. Decisions as to whether a proposed term
         is in compliance with the DCMI Abstract Model will be made using the
         DCMI-Compliant Term Decision Tree
         <http://www.ukoln.ac.uk/twiki/bin/view/Metadata/TermDecisionTree>.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Appendix B: Excerpts from 2003 UB process
            http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/2006/02/13/process/

   4.2.1. To be supplied by the proposers (see table below):

   Proposal Requirements Table 
   
   Name                 A suggested unique token for use in encodings
   Label                A suggested human-readable label for the proposed term
   Definition           The definition of the term
   Comment              Information concerning the possible application of 
                        the proposed term
   Examples             Examples of use of the proposed term, making clear what type of 
                        literal values are expected.
   Type of term         Is the proposed term an "element,"
                        or an "element refinement" (as defined in
                        http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/principles) [NOTE:
                        Encoding schemes are registered using a separate process]
   Term qualified       If the proposed term is an element refinement, which term does 
                        it qualify?
   Why needed           A justification of the need for the proposed term
   Working Group 
   support              Demonstration and documentation that the proposed new 
                        term has substantial support of Working Group
                        members. Evidence of such support
                        can include votes held on mailing
                        lists or in face-to-face meetings or
                        positive endorsements from members
                        of the DC-GENERAL mailing list.

   Proposed status      Is the term proposed as Recommended or Conforming?
   Related DCMI terms   A discussion of possible overlap with existing terms
   Related non-DCMI 
   terms                An annotated listing of related terms in non-DCMI metadata 
                        vocabularies
   Impact on 
   applications         An annotated listing of existing applications that 
                        could be affected by recognition of this term
   About the proposers  A pointer to a description, in standard form (to be 
                        specified) of the working group or organization putting 
                        forward the proposal: its scope, aims, a brief history, 
                        current status, and a pointer to archives.

