------------------------------------------------------------------------
Accessibility Working Group 
NewElementProposal 
Converted from the text at: http://dublincore.org/accessibilitywiki/NewElementProposal
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Contributions to this document are very welcome,
however significant changes should be first discussed
on the dc-accessibility mailing list. To join or
leave the dc-accessibility mailing list, please visit
http://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/lists/dc-accessibility.html.

Adaptation Term Proposal 

Adaptation Requirements Table 
Name       http://purl.org/dc/terms/adaptation 
Label      Adaptation 
Definition A statement describing characteristics of the resource that affect 
           how it can be sensed, understood, or interacted with by users or agents. 
Comment    An Adaptation description might be used to match a (digital or physical) 
           resource to a description of user or user agent needs and preferences. 
Examples   Adaptation="Closed captions" 
           Adaptation="Extended audio descriptions" 
           Adaptation="Contains video and text transcript of action" 
Type of Term Element 
Term qualified None 
Why needed The availability of an Adaptation term will allow for more precise 
           descriptions of resources: many governments and
           communities mandate the accessibility of resources
           and services. A means of describing the relevant
           accessibility characteristics of resources is
           currently not available in DCMI metadata terms. The
           addition of an Adaptation term will enable this.
           Working Group support There has been significant
           online and face-to-face discussion of the proposed
           new element. A couple of people commented on the
           DC-Accessibility mailing list that they were not
           sure about it being an adaptation element, but
           there has been a lot of informal discussion in the
           accessibility community in general and within the
           task group and there is general consensus that a
           narrow scope adaptation term is what is needed.

           This element and the background AccessForAll work
           has been undertaken in collaboration with a number
           of other bodies in the hope that interoperability
           and industry adoption can flow more easily
           across communities. This has meant consensus in
           a far wider community than just the DC community
           although that has been a priority. All the work
           has been exposed (via the website and email list)
           on the DC-Accessibility Wiki for some time and
           it has been presented in major fora such as the
           W3C annual conference, accessibility conferences
           in Europe, north America, Asia, and considered
           by standards and specifications organisations
           including ISO JTC1 SC36, CEN ISSS LTSC, CEN ISS
           MMI-DC and IMS Global Consortium.

Proposed status Recommended 
Related DCMI terms The conformsTo element refinement is a reference to an 
          established standard to which the resource
          conforms. The standards referenced might be
          accessibility standards. There may be overlap in
          that conformance to an accessibility standard may
          imply certain adaptation properties but the explicit
          statement of the exact adaptation properties is
          achievable only through the Adaptation term.

Related non-DCMI terms - IMS AccessForAll Metadata Specification (AccMD) Version 
          1.0: The requirements of the Adaptation term
          proposal, specifically its ability to match
          resources to the accessibility preferences of
          a user, are highly influenced by the IMS AccMD
          specification. The AccMD specification documents are
          located at the IMS Accessibility Web site. A brief
          technical explanation of the key concepts behind the
          AccMD can be found in the AccessForAllFramework.  -
          ISO JTC1 SC36 AccessForAll Metadata Personal Needs
          and Preferences and Digital Resouce Descriptions

Impact on applications Minimal. Current DC-based applications provide no 
conflicting means of identifying adaptation characteristics of resources. 
About the proposers http://dublincore.org/groups/access/ 

RefreshCache for this page (cached 2005-09-02 06:01:10)

EditText of this page (last edited 2005-09-01 17:01:33 by Liddy Nevile) 
